## TLDR;
An incremental game with a Virus theme.
Currently working on a basic prototype that works on desktop as a web app.

# IncreDemic: an Incremental Pandemic

IncreDemic is inspired by games such as *Pandemic* (the flash game) and *Plague Inc.*, as well as incremental games such as *CivClicker* and *AdVenture Capitalist*. This project has an indefinite scope in order to allow me to continue working on it into the future, but my current goal is a working prototype to demonstrate the main concepts. Publishing it to web at this stage also allows any players to provide feedback so I can balance and improve the game better.

The player starts by naming a VIRUS, which can be typed in by the player, but the sample name given is generated from a list of existing, both real and fantasy, viruses. Once this is accepted, the first victim is INFECTED. If the player drops at any point to 0 INFECTED, the game is lost and will have to be either reloaded from the most recent SAVEGAME, or started again.
In terms of saving and loading, one game can be saved at any point and this SAVEGAME is stored in localstorage. This is loaded by default on opening the game, to restart the game the SAVEGAME must be deleted. In the future I could look at more options of exporting a SAVEGAME so that custom saves can be imported and shared.
Once the first victim has been INFECTED, the player infects more victims by clicking "Infect", to begin with this infects 1 new victim and has a 1/10 chance to generate a point of REPLICATION.

REPLICATION is used primarily to buy TRANSMISSION upgrades. This allows idle generation, and is split into four distinct paths. 
>- The **Droplet** path bases mostly fluids and later contiminating water supply. It is designed as a basic reliable path with lower peaks but works in combination well with SYMPTOMS. 
>- The **Sit and Wait** path is based on diseases like HIV that lay dormant in or out of the body for many years, with low VIRULENCE until sudden outbreaks. It is a slow gaining path that has comparitively higher REPLICATION and explodes INFECTED once certain points have been reached.
>- The **Vector** path is transmitted via a variety of living vectors, from bugs and rodents to livestock and urban wildlife. It is a gambler route begins similar to Droplet but later higher potential (and risk) from RANDOM EVENTS.
>- The **Contact** path spreads mostly through humans themselves. It spreads slowly to begin with, but can gain VIRULENCE and DEATHS much faster later in the game. Zombification could be used as a mechanic as well.

ADAPTATION refers to the upgrades that can be purchased, using a variety of the currencies generated by the VIRUS. It has 3 main categories:
>- **Evolution** progresses the player to different stages of the game - the first one available is AUTO-REPLICATE, which lets the VIRUS gain REPLICATION from idle generation (auto INFECTION). After this, there are others such as unlocking new SYMPTOMS, resistances, and more capabilities. It requires spending REPLICATION and/or having a certain VIRULENCE level.
>- **Multipliers**, which are first unlocked after AUTO-REPLICATE is purchased, cost INFECTED and require a certain VIRULENCE level. They are additive multipliers to the rate of infection, both auto- and from clicking: so purchasing a x2 multiplier then a x3 will result in a x5 multiplier. Each multiplier is unlocked by purchasing the previous one, although more specified multipliers could be added in the future, later in the game.
>- **Resistance** begin as HEAT and COLD resistance. After a certain level is reached in INFECTED, the rate of infection will slow unless resistance is bought. They cost INFECTED and REPLICATION. After the initial HEAT and COLD resistance, more can be unlocked by EVOLUTION and buying previous resistances. Future resistances include MEDICATION, which reduces the decrease in INFECTION rate from progressions in MEDICINE, and defenses against VACCINE and DOCTORS.

SYMPTOMS are used to create VIRULENCE, as well as, later, DEATHS. Increased VIRULENCE is required for many ADAPTATION upgrades, though, combined with DEATHS, later will reduce TRANSMISSION rates. VIRULENCE also increases DOCTORS generation rate. SYMPTOMS may have side effects, such as increased infectivity, or decreased productivity which reduces the effectiveness of DOCTORS.

DOCTORS begin appearing once the VIRUS is detected, which happens as a RANDOM EVENT at some point after VIRULENCE reaches a certain level. The chance for this RANDOM EVENT to happen goes up until it has a 100% chance; so the VIRUS is eventually certain to be detected.
DOCTORS generate two different stats:
>- **Medicine** which slows the increase from clicking or idle generation. MEDICINE is constantly produced, and requires resistances to combat, although can't cure the VIRUS.
>- **Vaccination** which builds up in a meter. Once it reaches full, a VACCINE is released which acts as a negative idle generation which is combatted by increased infectivity rates. If allowed to continue unchecked, can reduce the INFECTED level to 0, losing the game.
>Note that purchasing any upgrade that requires INFECTED as a currency also reduces the INFECTED level, and while it cannot be bought if it will take the INFECTED level to 0, may be dangerous if VACCINE is in effect.

RANDOM EVENTS may occur at any point in the game and have 3 distinct types:
>- **MUTATION** improves the VIRUS, anything that is presently available at the current VIRULENCE level can be unlocked. It also will contain a selection of hidden upgrades that can only be gained through a RANDOM EVENT.
>- **SCIENCE** improves the DOCTORS, and can include advancements in MEDICINE, VACCINE or disabling the benefits from certain resistant ADAPTATION.
>- **GLOBAL** events are random and affect TRANSMISSION. They could be positive or negative: such as an outbreak or improved hygiene in certain areas.


## Current stage of the game
The game is in the early stage of development. The player can choose a TRANSMISSION path, but only two (DROPLET and SIT AND WAIT) currently have any upgrades, and there are only a few. There are two stages of SYMPTOMS currently available, the second stage requires 3 VIRULENCE and the option to evolve appears after any SYMPTOM is bought. 
There are 2 multipliers available, the first of which is unlocked after AUTO-REPLICATE is unlocked. There is also HEAT and COLD resistance, but no MEDICATION upgrades.
DOCTORS, DEATHS, and RANDOM EVENTS have not been implemented yet.

Currently, I am working on balancing the calculations for increasing the cost of purchasing SYMPTOMS. Initialising the first upgrades for each TRANSMISSION path. After this, the order of implementation will be: more SYMPTOMS, DEATHS, RANDOM EVENTS, then DOCTORS.

## Future (TODO)
-A prestiege mechanism: SPORE/PLANETS. Each PLANET (beginning with earth) would have a finite number of potential victims, meaning once all of these have been killed, a new PLANET would need to be infected. This would involve 'Resetting' the game, and the new PLANET would begin with some kind of upgrade or benefit for resetting.
-Create a version that is compatible with mobile, for web, as well as independent Android and iOS apps. 
-Improved graphics and appearance, potentially these could be customisable. 
-Exportable save/load functions.